well members of Israel's war cabinet
have toured Northern Gaza they've been
meeting soldiers taking part in the
ground offensive on the Strip Israeli
military video shows defense minister
yov galland and emergency Minister Benny
gun talking to troops Alan Fisher in
occupied East Jerusalem for us I
understand that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has been speaking in the last
few minutes or so what's he been
saying just in the last 15 minutes he's
gone into a cabinet meeting in Tel Aviv
he addressed the media as he often does
on a Sunday he said that the war exerts
a heavy costs and there's just simply No
Escape from that and that comes after
what has been a very difficult week
weekend in particular for the Israeli
Army what was interesting was v h next
he said we do not yield to International
pressure we have made this decision to
continue the war alone now he said
something similar in the past but given
his conversation with Joe Biden on
Saturday evening that and Joe Biden said
that that was a a a private conversation
rather than being on the record with a
lot of the
redout there will be questions about
exactly what was said in that
conversation now there'll be question
marks about whether or not Joe Biden put
more pressure on the Israelis to try and
move to the next stage of the War sooner
rather than later we've certainly heard
it from us officials over the last two
weeks this was Joe Biden weighing in
just the day or two before Christmas and
perhaps Benjamin netanyahu's comments
reflect perhaps an a of frustration with
Joe Biden that's something that may well
come out over the next 48 hours or so
and he said they will continue fighting
uh until they reach their War goals
which of course is to eliminate Hamas to
return all the people who are being held
captive and to create a situation where
Gaza no longer poses a security threat
to Israel Alan all of this coming after
uh more Israeli soldier deaths what are
you hearing there about
that well even just in the last hour
we've had confirmation that another
Soldier died uh on Saturday that takes
the number of Israeli soldiers who died
in operations in Gaza over Friday and
Saturday to 14 we know how some of them
died four were killed when they were hit
by a guided missile in their armored
vehicle we know that a number were uh
killed by explosive devices and there
has been intense fighting in both
northern and southern Gaza and so this
is part of the ongoing operation by the
Israelis uh what is clear is that while
they say in Northern and Central Gaza
they're exerting a level of military
control they are still fighting very
fiercely in fact the Israeli Army
spokesman said on Saturday evening that
they were were finding some of the
situations uh quite intense uh and there
were Fierce clashes in some places we
are being told that not only are they
Street to Street or building to building
they're actually face to face but the
fact that 14 Israeli soldiers have died
in the last 24 48 Hours certainly adds a
new light to Benjamin netanyahu's
comments as he went into that cabinet
meeting about the price that Israel is
having to bear for launching this war in
Gaza Ian thank thanks very much Alan
Fischer in occupied East Jerusalem I
want to bring in AKA Eldar he's a
political analyst he's joining us now
from Tel Aviv thank you very much indeed
for being with us um is Israel's
military reflecting the reputation going
by what is happening on the ground in
Gaza that it had before the War
Began actually uh last time that uh
Israel had to pay with so many
fatalities
was in the war in southern Lebanon 18
years ago uh this is uh very different
from the yipo war or the Six Days War um
the Israeli soldiers have actually to
fight from house to house it's an open
very crowded area uh to be very careful
not to Target one of the hostages like
what happened uh last week and uh to
avoid Friendly Fire 20% of the
fatalities in the in this war were
Israeli victims of uh their colleagues
who uh were not sure if uh what they see
uh around the wall or in the in the
house where Palestinian militants Hamas
militants are hiding are their
colleagues or an ambush of the Hamas um
the uh question should be um what Israel
can do to avoid it to avoid more
fatalities and to do this Israel will
have to strike more from the air and
this of course will cause more
fatalities of Palestinian innocent
Palestinian and your reporter just uh
mentioned the number of fatalities and
then Israel has to look outside to the
International Community to the United
States to the UN and how long can Israel
uh afford in in uh the international
Arena uh to take this kind of criticism
that it's taking now given that that
what You' just said is that in order to
draw try to avoid the the level of
Israeli um fatalities increasing it
would have to continue the aerial
bombardments which as you've mentioned
is predominantly against what the Us and
other foreign governments are demanding
um how difficult a situation is Israel's
military particularly but also its
political Wing um finding itself because
it has to balance the deaths of Israeli
of young Israeli conr conscripts in the
main against the longer term objectives
uh indeed Rob uh you have to ask
yourself why now why didn't Israel do
this boots on the ground in the uh
previous escalations uh in Gaza and uh
the answer is October 7th the Israeli
public opinion uh is willing now to uh
accept more fatalities and we are we
didn't mention thousands of
uh Israelis who will be handicapped who
lost their legs or lost their hands and
uh we are talking about maybe more than
2,000 Israelis young Israelis and um
this is a kind of a war of Revenge that
Israel at this time the Israeli public
is willing to sacrifice because they
believe that this is what it takes to
put an end and to make sure that uh the
massacre that happened uh in in October
will not happen again and the other
thing is that uh prime minister
Netanyahu has managed to convince U I
believe too many Israelis that in order
to get the hostages back you need to use
more power this is the only language
that the Hamas militants understand and
uh let let me forgive me for
interrupting you but I want to I do want
want to ask you about that particular
point the the goal had the stated goal
as Alam was mentioned before was to of
the Israeli military and the Israeli
government was to destroy Hamas and get
the captives back um destroying Hamas to
those of us watching outside seems to be
coming increasingly difficult and is
Ping putting a larger number of Israeli
soldiers at risk because the strategy
appears to be changing on the ground but
at the same time that almost seems to
put to one side the determination to get
the the the captives back and yet the
pressure within Israel seems to be to
get the captives back first is there a
disconnect in the Israeli government
particularly about the goals of what
they're trying to
achieve well as the lobby of the
families of the captives has have stated
yesterday in a rally in Tel Aviv uh is
that the government does not put the uh
hostages the fate of the hostages on top
of their agenda that actually what they
say is that netan doesn't care about
them and uh I believe that uh the time
is running uh and time is you know the
the clock is ticking against the
captives it's now winter and they're
freezing there there are old people
there are young women there and uh every
day that passes we know that uh What uh
we have to add to the number of uh
soldiers uh who are victims of this war
we will have to add to the list another
victim of October 7th one one more
captive two more captives and uh uh the
Israeli public now really believes and
this is changing because we will see
more and more demonstrations believes
that there is no other way and as long
as netan this is very important is
getting a green light from the United
States there are no sanctions uh what we
get is in the best case is a call for
human humanitarian Corridor and to stop
uh the air rates but you know the boss
the big boss President Biden is telling
the Israeli public that Netanyahu is
doing what needs to do AKA eldo from Tel
Aviv we appreciate it thank you very
much indeed for being with us thank you
Ro